mind your decisions I'm presh to Walker
triangle ABC as an inscribed circle I
the inscribed circle is tangent to BC at
Point D if the radius of the inscribed
circle is 15 BD is equal to 26 and DC is
equal to 25 what is the area of triangle
ABC pause if you'd like to give this
problem a try and when you're ready keep
watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
I'm first going to review the concepts
used to solve this problem these will be
equal tangents to a circle the area of a
triangle from its in radius and Heron's
formula for the area of a triangle will
get started with equal tangents to a
circle consider circle P and an exterior
point a construct tangents a B and a C
we want to show that a B is equal to AC
to do that will construct radii P B and
PC we then construct a P it's obvious
now that ABP and AC P are congruent
right triangles to be more explicit
notice that ap is a hypotenuse length W
therefore the remaining leg in the right
triangle will be equal to the square
root of W squared minus R squared and
that's true in both of these right
triangles
therefore a B is exactly equal to AC now
let's derive the area of a triangle from
its in radius in a triangle with sides a
b c consider the inscribed circle draw
radii to each of the points of tangency
we can therefore partition the triangle
into three smaller triangles one
triangle will be alongside a this
triangle will have an area of AR over to
this triangle alongside b will have an
area of BR all over 2 finally the
triangle alongside c has an area of c
are all over two we can simplify this
formula and then factor out the r we
thus have r multiplied by the perimeter
all over 2 the perimeter over two is
known as the semi-perimeter and often
abbreviated as s therefore the formula
is r times s finally we have Heron's
formula for the area of a triangle
it'll be equal to the following
expression the square root of s
multiplied by s minus a multiplied by s
minus b multiplied by s minus c here s
again is the semi-perimeter
I'll now briefly give a proof of Heron's
formula by al-qasas law of cosines C
squared is equal to a squared plus b
squared minus 2a b multiplied by the
cosine of angle c in this equation we'll
solve for the cosine of angle c well
then use the identity that the sine of
angle C is equal to the square root of 1
minus the cosine squared of the angle C
we substitute that in and then simplify
we then use a formula that the area of a
triangle is equal to 1/2 a B multiplied
by the sine of angle C again we
substitute and simplify we're now going
to use a lot of algebra to simplify this
equation first we have a difference of
squares so we can factor it as follows
we're then going to factor each of these
terms and then we have another
difference of squares so we factor each
of these quantities we then simplify
this formula now we're going to take
that 1/4 and put it inside as 1 over 16
we can distribute this to each of the
four terms because 2 to the power 4 is
equal to 16 finally the semi-perimeter
is equal to a plus B plus C all over 2
so the first term will be s the second
term will be s minus C the third term
will be s minus a and the last term will
be s minus B we substitute those in and
then we slightly rearrange this formula
and we get exactly Heron's formula we've
proven it so now let's use each of these
concepts to solve the problem first
cool tangents BD must be equal to B F
therefore bf is equal to 26 then CD and
C are equal tangents therefore C II is
equal to 25 here if AF is equal to x AE
must also be equal to X consequently
side a B is 26 plus X AC is 25 plus X
and BC is equal to 26 plus 25 which is
equal to 51
we will now calculate the area of
triangle ABC in two different ways first
we'll calculate its area from the
inradius
we first calculate the semi-perimeter
this will be the perimeter of the
triangle all over 2 this simplifies to
be 51 plus X the area will be R times s
which will be equal to 15 multiplied by
the quantity 51 plus X we'll put this
equation to the side we then use Heron's
formula so we have the formula we've
calculated the semi-perimeter and we
substitute in to get the area of the
triangle in this form we thus have two
equations for the area of the triangle
which we set equal to each other
we now systematically solve this
equation to solve for the variable X
this is basic algebra so I'll just go
through quickly we then end up with x is
equal to 27 but we're not trying to
solve for X we're trying to solve for
the area of the triangle so we go back
to the formula for the area and then
substitute and we get the answer of 1170
I love this problem involves so many
different concepts from geometry thanks
for making mind your decisions one of
the best channels on you
as always thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]